# Movies_recommendation_system

## Problem Statement:
In today's digital age, the abundance of streaming platforms and an ever-expanding catalog of movies have made it increasingly challenging for users to discover films that align with their preferences and interests. To enhance user satisfaction and engagement, there is a pressing need for an advanced and efficient movie recommendation system. The goal of this project is to develop a state-of-the-art movie recommendation system that leverages cutting-edge machine learning techniques and user behavior analysis to provide personalized and accurate movie recommendations to users.

## Types of Recommendation Systems:
* There are mainly three types of recommender systems:

#### Demographic Recommender
* It offers generalized recommendations to every user, based on movie popularity. This system recommends the same movies with similar demographic features to all users and it does not give personalized recommendations to users.

#### Content-Based Recommender

* It builds an engine that computes similarity between movies based on certain metrics (such as genre, director, description, actors, etc.) and suggests movies that are most similar to a particular movie that a user liked. The general idea behind these recommender systems is that if a person liked a particular item, he or she will also like an item that is similar to it.

#### Collaborative Recommender

* This system matches persons with similar interests and provides recommendations based on this matching. Collaborative filtering is based on the idea that users similar to a particular user can be used to predict how much that particular user will like a particular product or service those users have used/experienced but that particular user has not.

## Dataset Used:

The MovieLens datasets include:

"tmdb_5000_credits" which contains the following features:

* movie_id - A unique identifier for each movie.
* title - Title of each movie.
* cast - The name of lead and supporting actors.
* crew - The name of Director, Editor, Composer, Writer etc.

"tmdb_5000_movies" which contains the following features:

 * budget - The budget in which the movie was made.
* genre - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy,Thriller etc.
* homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.
* id - This is in fact the movie_id as in the first dataset.
* keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
* original_language - The language in which the movie was made.
* original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
* overview - A brief description of the movie.
* popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
* production_companies - The production house of the movie.
* production_countries - The country in which it was produced.
* release_date - The date on which it was released.
* revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
* runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
* status - "Released" or "Rumored".
* tagline - Movie's tagline.
* title - Title of the movie.
* vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved.
* vote_count - the count of votes recieved.

"ratings_small" which contains the following features:

* userId - A unique identifier for each user.
* movieId - A unique identifier for each movie.
* rating - The rating given by the user for each movie.
* timestamp - The time when rating was recorded.
The link to download the dataset is [Kaggle Website](https://www.kaggle.com/code/sohamohajeri/movie-recommendation-systems/input?select=tmdb_5000_movies.csv)

## Work Flow
Step-1: Data Collection and PreProcessing , this includes reading the dataset, extracting the features from the list of columns for making our predicting model, use vectorizer to give numerical values for a string.\
Step-2: Finding the cosine similarity of the vectors created from the features. Input the name of the movie from the user and then find the close matches from that word in the list of titles of movies. Using the title find the index value and then use enumerate function find the similarity of all other movies from this movie index found.\
Step-3: After finding the similarity score , sort the list in descending order. \
Step-4: Print the names of the 30 similar movies from the beginning of the list.
